Creating and Managing Podman Containers
Podman is a lightweight, fast, and powerful container engine that is an alternative to Docker. It is open-source and provides the ability to create, run, and manage containers in a secure and efficient manner. Podman is gaining popularity in the containerization industry because it is daemonless, which means that it does not require a background process to run.

In this blog, we will cover the process of creating and managing containers using Podman. We will cover the following topics:

Installing Podman
Creating a container with Podman
Running a container with Podman
Stopping a container with Podman
Removing a container with Podman
Managing containers with Podman
Conclusion
Installing Podman:
Before creating and managing containers with Podman, we need to install Podman on system. Podman is available for many Linux distributions, including CentOS, Fedora, Debian, and Ubuntu.

To install Podman on Ubuntu, you can use the following command:

sudo apt-get install podman

Creating a container with Podman:
To create a container with Podman, you first need to create an image. You can create an image using a Dockerfile or by pulling an image from a container registry.
For example, to create an image from a Dockerfile, use the following command:
podman build -t my-image:latest .

This command builds an image named “my-image” with the “latest” tag from the current directory. You can replace “my-image” with your desired image name.

After creating an image, you can create a container from it using the following command:
podman run -d — name my-container my-image:latest
This command creates a container named “my-container” from the “my-image” image with the “latest” tag.

Running a container with Podman:
To start a container with Podman, use the following command:
podman start my-container

This command starts the “my-container” container. You can replace “my-container” with your container name.

You can also run a container in the foreground with the following command:
podman run -it — name my-container my-image:latest

This command runs the “my-container” container in the foreground with an interactive terminal. You can replace “my-container” with your container name.

Stopping a container with Podman:
To stop a running container with Podman, use the following command:
podman stop my-container

This command stops the “my-container” container. You can replace “my-container” with your container name.

Removing a container with Podman:
To remove a container with Podman, use the following command:
podman rm my-container

This command removes the “my-container” container. You can replace “my-container” with your container name.

You can also remove all stopped containers with the following command:

podman container prune

This command removes all stopped containers.

Managing containers with Podman:
Podman provides various commands to manage containers, such as viewing container logs, inspecting containers, and attaching to a running container’s console.

For example, to view the logs of a container, use the following command:
podman logs my-container

This command displays the logs of the “my-container” container. You can replace “my-container” with your container name.